although all seeds are full of nutriment
most of them are very small like these
from these desert plants that I've just
picked you need about 500 of these to
make the food equivalent of a typical
nut like an acorn any rodent wanting to
store the tiny seeds produced by plants
like these faces a transport problem it
would be hopelessly impractical to carry
them away one by one as squirrels carry
acorns here in California's Mojave
Desert there's a little rodent that
solved that problem and its burrows are
all around me
mic most desert animals the creature
that owns this hole usually doesn't come
out until after dark and it's cooler but
if I scatter a few seeds around its
entrance maybe that'll tempt him to come
out a little earlier well as it happens
it didn't in fact it wasn't until much
later when the moon was up that the
burros owner eventually showed itself a
kangaroo rat
it can carry hundreds of seeds at one
time because it has expandable cheek
pouches the pink toes poking out from
the fur are those of its back legs which
are huge and support its whole body
that's why it's called a kangaroo rat
its front legs are working away hidden
beneath its chin shoveling the seeds
into its mouth
normally a kangaroo rat would have to
travel quite a long way to find enough
seeds to fill its pouches but tonight
because of what I've supplied this one's
shopping bags are soon full enough to
take back to its burrow area and it
covers them over with sand just to keep
them safe it's deep burrow is a
relatively safe place and the kangaroo
rat sleeps here throughout the day and
much of the night even so the slightest
suspicious sound from outside will wake
it a gopher snake is calling towards the
Burrow it might find its way inside it
had better be seen off
foot stamping as the first warning that
seems to have no effect perhaps kicking
sand in its face will do the trick
snake doesn't like that at all
victory to the kangaroo rat